Domestic Violence in NYC: Trend Over the Past Three Years


Since 2021 I have been investigating Domestic Violence in NYC more in depth and using different open data sources such as NYC Open Data, the Mayor’s Office to End Domestic and Gender-Based Violence (ENDGBV), and NYPD on Domestic Violence to collect datasets. With this said, for this assignment I have decided to use NYPD data and create a new repository in my GitHub account and added the data set from which I created a time series using Visual Studio Code to see the domestic violence trends in the past three years in the five boroughs of NYC. 
On the NYPD website itself finding the data is not tricky but I wanted to find a dataset with all the years but that is not possible because once I click on the annual reports, I find myself with the data separated into different months. Therefore, I had to download month by month and merge all this data using excel. I ended up creating a dataset from 2019-2021. 
From what I have seen this past year while collecting data on domestic violence in NYC is that is not an easy job because even though the city is trying their best to have transparent data on this issue, I haven’t seen much of it. It is very important that the data is collected every year but more must be collected or at least us “the public” need to see more of what is being collected and of course without invading the privacy of the victims and their families. All I see in this data collected by NYPD is data on the precinct number where the cases are reported to, data on rape, felony assaults, murders, and the number of calls that NYPD receives on domestic violence. However, if I wanted to map the precincts where cases are reported to, I would have to create a dataset myself by searching up the precincts numbers and collecting each address individually and of course I would have to calculate the information to get the longitude and latitude. 
When creating the time series to see the changes over the past three years I do see how in 2020 cases were less and of course this was caused by the pandemic and from the articles I have read it was because victims were afraid of reporting their abusers since they were in lockdown with them. But it is important to see this trend and see how little by little victims are speaking once again and cases are being reported and we see this because the time series shows the lines going up once again; there were 61 murders in 2021, 58 in 2020, and 59 in 2019. 
anything someone from the public interested in your project will want to know

Data Source: https://www1.nyc.gov/site/nypd/stats/reports-analysis/domestic-violence.page
